Typing at 60 words a minute--no stretch for a good typist--means five or six letters striking the same spot each second. And at such a speed, the typist might need to be slowed down for the sake of the typewriter. And that is what QWERTY supposedly did. Then again, if QWERTY really was designed to be slow, how come the most popular pair of letters in English--T, H--are adjacent and right under the index fingers? The plot thickens. The QWERTY layout was designed for the convenience of telegraph operators transcribing Morse code. Why do we still use it? The simple
The race to be the first 5G country has begun--and the winner stands to gain a lot. Around the world, giant wireless-technology companies are coordinating with their governments to come up with winning strategies to implement 5G, the next generation of cellular networks that promise to deliver ultrafast speeds and open up a range of new applications. The U.S., China, South Korea and Japan are leading the early rounds. AT&T T and Verizon plan city-by-city 5G launches starting later this year, while China expects national coverage by 2020. While wireless-industry executives say applications that tap the full potential of 5G--self-driving
Giving What We Can, which evaluates which charities most cost-effectively tackle global poverty and invites members to pledge at least 10 per cent of their lifetime earnings to these charities, was set up by Dr Toby Ord of the Philosophy Faculty at Oxford University in December 2009. In three years Giving What We Can has attracted more than 250 members from 17 countries. Its members include students, teachers and nurses. Dr. Ord said: "I am delighted that so many people have taken this pledge. But pledging is only half of the story because we believe that where you give your
You'd think after 200 years, folks would eventually say, "That Malthus guy? Kind of wrong." Yet, with the (projected) birth today of the world's 7 billionth occupant, there's no shortage of media hand-wringing about the dim prospects of our world from here. Thomas Malthus is famous (or infamous, depending on your view) for his belief that human population growth would outpace food production--and fast--which would lead to societal ruin. He was downright dismissive of the idea of "unlimited progress" in food production. Can there be "unlimited progress" in food production? Not sure. But Malthus would never imagine that, with 6
A free trade agreement is a pact between two or more nations to reduce barriers to imports and exports among them. Under a free trade policy, goods and services can be bought and sold across international borders with little or no government tariffs, quotas, subsidies, or prohibitions to inhibit their exchange. In principle, free trade on the international level is no different from trade between neighbors, towns, or states. However, it allows businesses in each country to focus on producing and selling the goods that best use their resources while other businesses import goods that are scarce or unavailable domestically.
The Earth's climate has changed throughout history. Just in the last 650,000 years there have been seven cycles of glacial advance and retreat, with the abrupt end of the last ice age about 7,000 years ago marking the beginning of the modern climate era--and of human civilization. Most of these climate changes are attributed to very small variations in Earth's orbit that change the amount of solar energy our planet receives. The current warming trend is of particular significance because most of it is extremely likely (greater than 95 percent probability) to be the result of human activity since the
The Condorcet paradox (also known as voting paradox or the paradox of voting) in social choice theory is a situation noted by the Marquis de Condorcet in the late 18th century, in which collective preferences can be cyclic, even if the preferences of individual voters are not cyclic. This is paradoxical, because it means that majority wishes can be in conflict with each other: Majorities prefer, for example, candidate A over B, B over C, and yet C over A. When this occurs, it is because the conflicting majorities are each made up of different groups of individuals. Thus an
In Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle claims that to discover the human good we must identify the function of a human being. He argues that the human function is rational activity. Our good is therefore rational activity performed well, which Aristotle takes to mean in accordance with virtue. This argument has been criticized at almost every point. This chapter defends Aristotle's argument from these criticisms. Drawing on the account of form and matter in Aristotle's Metaphysics, it argues that "function" does not mean purpose but rather a way of functioning--how a thing does what it does. The way human beings do things
One may well ask: "How can you advocate breaking some laws and obeying others?" The answer lies in the fact that there are two types of laws: just and unjust. I would be the first to advocate obeying just laws. One has not only a legal but a moral responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws. I would agree with St. Augustine that "an unjust law is no law at all." Now, what is the difference between the two? How does one determine whether a law is just or unjust? A just
Give me that which I want, and you shall have this which you want, is the meaning of every such offer; and it is in this manner that we obtain from one another the far greater part of those good offices which we stand in need of. It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own necessities but of their advantages. Nobody but
Transplant surgeons and economists alike advocate for a legal organ sales market to remedy the problem. The sale of eggs, sperm and blood is legal, so why should organs be any different? Yet this idea has not been widely accepted by the public. Resisters argue that legalizing organ sales will exploit the poor, as they are more likely to risk organ removal surgery for monetary gain. However, opponents often fail to acknowledge that the poor are already exploited in the black market. Like most illegal activities, the sale of organs is fraught with criminality and violence. Organs are stolen or
It seems obvious that, for a company to succeed, it needs the right products. But many people believe the right culture is just as important. Creating that culture has been the holy grail for managers ever since Tom Peters and Robert Waterman focused on the issue back in 1982 in their book "In Search of Excellence". The idea is back in fashion today. A prime example is a new book called "What You Do Is Who You Are: How to Create Your Business Culture" by Ben Horowitz, of the venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. Mr Horowitz uses some unexpected case studies
Imagine that a close friend has been suffering from a longstanding psychological condition. His symptoms are severe and agonizing, damaging his work and intimate relationships. The most effective treatment for his disorder has been known for over three decades, so you would reasonably assume that he could obtain it from any licensed mental health professional. Your assumption would likely be wrong. Meet Jerry. Jerry (not his real name) contacted one of us, reporting that he was experiencing unbidden and frightening thoughts that he might harm someone; that he had elaborate rituals that led him to lock doors in a precise
Born on January 2, 1920, in Petrovichi, Russia, Isaac Asimov immigrated with his family to the United States and became a biochemistry professor while pursuing writing. He published his first novel, "Pebble in the Sky," in 1950. An immensely prolific author who penned nearly 500 books, he published influential sci-fi works like "I, Robot" and the "Foundation trilogy," as well as books in a variety of other genres. Asimov died in New York City on April 6, 1992. Isaac Asimov was born Isaak Yudovick Ozimov on January 2, 1920, in Petrovichi, Russia, to Anna Rachel Berman and Judah Ozimov. The
Especially in the wake of the financial meltdown, readers will hunger for Burton G. Malkiel's reassuring, authoritative, gimmick-free, and perennially best-selling guide to investing. With 1.5 million copies sold, "A Random Walk Down Wall Street" has long been established as the first book to purchase when starting a portfolio. In addition to covering the full range of investment opportunities, the book features new material on the Great Recession and the global credit crisis as well as an increased focus on the long-term potential of emerging markets. With a new supplement that tackles the increasingly complex world of derivatives, along with
Zell reads the Journal because he's a real-estate magnate, a multimillionaire, and he likes to keep his eye on the market. But this article wasn't about real estate. It was about the dire public health crisis that is kidney disease. More than 3,500 Americans die each year for want of a kidney. Three hundred thousand-plus souls languish in dialysis--a blood-cleaning process that leaves you dog-tired and drained, six hours a day, three times a week. Zell decided he could spare part of himself to save a fellow human from this hell. Zell is married. His wife, Emily, is a psychiatrist
At 24, Patrick is a fast food veteran. Over the past eight years, he has worked at seven different franchises. He started out at America's Incredible Pizza Company at the NASCAR Speedpark in St. Louis, Missouri, the city where he grew up and still lives. He thought a fast food job would keep him on his feet while he figured out his life. He did not know it would become his life. Now he is captive to the hustle, always moving and going nowhere. "You pick up something easy to get stable," he says. "And on your quest to get
The use of hydraulic fracturing to extract oil and gas from the earth dates back to the 1940s, but only in the past few years has "fracking" become an energy buzzword, alluding primarily to the shale gas boom in the United States and all of the controversy that has accompanied it. Fracking-the high-pressure injection of water, chemicals and sand into shale deposits to release the gas and oil trapped within the rock-in recent years has been combined with horizontal drilling and other improvements in technology to harvest stores of gas and oil that previously were thought commercially unfeasible to access.
I had been there before. As a young student in a poetry class, barely 21, I was assigned to accompany a visiting professor to her lodging after her lecture. We climbed the hill to the entrance while she chatted merrily. She was an eccentric and effervescent black woman, a small tornado of flowing fabrics, long scarves, and costume jewelry, with acrylic nails that clicked as she clasped her hands together, swinging from outlandish cluelessness ("What city are we in again?") to brutal precision ("You seem like someone that doesn't really have a mother"). "This place used to be off-limits to
Just outside Portland, Maine, there's a 15,000-square-foot warehouse that's packed with reasons the U.S. health care system costs so much: Shelves climb floor to ceiling, stacked with tubs overflowing with unopened packages of syringes, diabetes supplies and shiny surgical instruments that run hundreds of dollars apiece. There are boxes of IV fluids and bags of ostomy supplies and kits with everything you'd need to perform an obstetrics surgery. This, however, isn't a story of about the crippling price of medical supplies. This is about the high cost of medical supplies that hospitals throw away. On a recent snowy day the
Two years ago, Kazushige Nishida, a Tokyo salaryman in his sixties, started renting a part-time wife and daughter. His real wife had recently died. Six months before that, their daughter, who was twenty-two, had left home after an argument and never returned. "I thought I was a strong person," Nishida told me, when we met one night in February, at a restaurant near a train station in the suburbs. "But when you end up alone you feel very lonely." Tall and slightly stooped, Nishida was wearing a suit and a gray tie. He had a deep voice and a gentle
Rain pounds against the open tailgate of my car, where I've taken shelter from the worst of the storm. Water pours from the hemlocks onto the devil's club. From maple bole to bole, raindrops bounce, splattering salmonberry and sorrel. I shrug into my rain gear, shoulder my pack, and splash across the parking lot. Rain bells off cars, smacks against my hood, beats on my shoulders, and drums on the garbage bag covering my pack. Against all instinct, I'm going to backpack into the clattering teeth of this North Pacific gale, in search of silence. It's not easy to find
The Coase Theorem, developed by economist Ronald Coase, states that when conflicting property rights occur, bargaining between the parties involved will lead to an efficient outcome regardless of which party is ultimately awarded the property rights, as long as the transaction costs associated with bargaining are negligible. Specifically, the Coase Theorem states that "if trade in an externality is possible and there are no transaction costs, bargaining will lead to an efficient outcome regardless of the initial allocation of property rights." The Coase Theorem is most easily explained via an example. It's clear that noise pollution fits the typical definition
Philosopher Slavoj Zizek told about utopia: "Which means that we should reinvent utopia but in what sense. There are two false meanings of utopia one is this old notion of imagining this ideal society we know will never be realized, the other is the capitalist utopia in the sense of new perversed desire that you are not only allowed but even solicited to realize. The true utopia is when the situation is so without issue, without the way to resolve it within the coordinates of the possible that out of the pure urge of survival you have to invent a
Songdo International Business District (Songdo IBD) is a smart city or "ubiquitous city" built from scratch on 600 hectares (1,500 acres) of reclaimed land along Incheon's waterfront, 30 kilometres (19 mi) southwest of Seoul, South Korea and connected to Incheon International Airport by a 12.3-kilometre (7.6 mi) reinforced concrete highway bridge, called Incheon Bridge. Along with Yeongjong and Cheongna, it is part of the Incheon Free Economic Zone. The Songdo International Business District will feature the Northeast Asia Trade Tower, G-tower, and the Incheon Tower. Schools, hospitals, apartments, office buildings and cultural amenities are to be built in the district.
Doki Doki Literature Club! is a 2017 American visual novel developed by Team Salvato for Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux. The game was initially distributed through itch.io, and later became available on Steam. The story follows a male high school student who joins the school's literature club and interacts with its four female members. The game features a mostly linear story, with some alternative scenes and endings depending on the choices the player makes. While the game appears at first glance to be a lighthearted dating simulator, it is in fact a metafictional psychological horror game that extensively breaks the
The Code of Hammurabi was one of the earliest and most complete written legal codes and was proclaimed by the Babylonian king Hammurabi, who reigned from 1792 to 1750 BC. Hammurabi expanded the city-state of Babylon along the Euphrates River to unite all of southern Mesopotamia. The Hammurabi code of laws, a collection of 282 rules, established standards for commercial interactions and set fines and punishments to meet the requirements of justice. Hammurabi's Code was carved onto a massive, finger-shaped black stone stele (pillar) that was looted by invaders and finally rediscovered in 1901. Hammurabi was the sixth king in
Programming is the process of taking an algorithm and encoding it into a notation, a programming language, so that it can be executed by a computer. Although many programming languages and many different types of computers exist, the important first step is the need to have the solution. Without an algorithm there can be no program. Computer science is not the study of programming. Programming, however, is an important part of what a computer scientist does. Programming is often the way that we create a representation for our solutions. Therefore, this language representation and the process of creating it becomes
The term artificial intelligence was coined in 1956, but AI has become more popular today thanks to increased data volumes, advanced algorithms, and improvements in computing power and storage. Early AI research in the 1950s explored topics like problem solving and symbolic methods. In the 1960s, the US Department of Defense took interest in this type of work and began training computers to mimic basic human reasoning. For example, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) completed street mapping projects in the 1970s. And DARPA produced intelligent personal assistants in 2003, long before Siri, Alexa or Cortana were household names.
Citrus taxonomy refers to the botanical classification of the species, varieties, cultivars, and graft hybrids within the genus Citrus and related genera, found in cultivation and in the wild. Citrus taxonomy is complex. Cultivated citrus are derived from various citrus species found in the wild. Some are only selections of the original wild types, while others are hybrids between two or more ancestors. Citrus plants hybridize easily between species with completely different morphologies, and similar-looking citrus fruits may have quite different ancestries. Some differ only in disease resistance. Conversely, different-looking varieties may be nearly genetically identical, and differ only by