Elizabeth Warren was elected the 46th president of the United States on Tuesday, becoming the nation's first female chief executive. Though the election was close, the results were not particularly shocking, aligning closely with the state of the polls over the last several weeks. "Corruption has woven its way into our nation's economy and government, bleeding our country dry of the things that make us great. The last four years have exacerbated this trend, with a man the very symbol of corporate greed sitting in the seat we have finally reclaimed. So, my promise to the American people is this:
Over the twelve years since the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as "Obamacare," was signed into law, the ACA has been the focal point of a violent tug-of-war between Republicans and Democrats, with Trump gutting it during his time in office, and with many Democrats promising universal healthcare during the 2020 election in response. Last Wednesday, we saw President Warren deliver on her promise of universal healthcare as she signed the "Single-Payer Universal Healthcare Act" (SPUHA) into law. The law guarantees a competitive government insurance policy for all American citizens and, in the long-term, is expected by some policy experts
We saw the signs: the yield curve inversion of 2019, the slowing global economy, the absurdly low interest rates in Europe--and we tried our best to prevent the recession they signaled. The Federal Reserve cut rates in 2019, and for a while, the economy seemed to continue growing at the incredible rate of the 2010s. However, last Wednesday, our worst fears actualized: The DOW fell by nearly 400 points, the most it had ever fallen since the Great Recession. Yesterday, the NBER announced that this crash officially marked the beginning of a recession. Central banks all around the world quickly
Many are attributing Elizabeth Warren's loss last Monday to the major recession that gripped the country during her term. According to Keith Borer, a Professor of Public Policy at Empire State University, her anti-corporation efforts and universal healthcare facilitated the economic downturn by providing major economic shocks. "The trade war with China that Warren inherited from her predecessor had already shaken the economy--and Warren's protectionist stance didn't help on that front. Though one might argue that her healthcare and anti-corporation policies were valuable in the long-run, they were undoubtedly harmful in the short run, giving the economy
The trade war with China began during Trump's presidency and continued during Warren's, marking one of the longest trade disputes in recent American history. The war is finally meeting its end under the new administration, which announced in a joint statement with China's government that tariffs on both sides would be cut by a billion dollars a week starting in March. "The economy was weakened over the last eight years with anti-market policies, and the American people elected me to repair it. The first step is to stop coddling our manufacturers and to face the global stage
In 2022, a rat's connectome--a model that shows the connections between all the neurons in an organism's brain--was comprehensively mapped for the first time. Four years later, last Thursday, the same was done for a human, challenging our understanding of what it means to be human. "We are, in a way, our brains," noted Jerry Indigo, a professor of neurobiology at Enneagon University and the principal investigator of this project. "And our brains are completely physical things, lumps of gooey, pink matter--the complexity of our identities come from the complex web of connections of our brain cells. By mapping this
There were many IPOs this year, but the most successful IPO was uncontested. Drumroll, please... The most successful IPO of 2032 was for "Parts," a company that produces and sells 3D printed human organs. Parts was one of the few biotech companies that had several fully developed products pass FDA regulatory tests before its IPO, giving it a major edge over other similar fledgling companies. The IPO started off strong, the stock price increasing nearly 300% the first day, then increasing nearly another 200% the second day. The stock continues to rise, leaving investors wondering if it
The popular movie series "Back to the Future" predicted that we'd have flying cars by 2015. Better eighteen years late than never: After testing out their "Amazon Airtransport" service in Los Angeles, Dallas, and Seattle, Amazon finally announced last Monday that they intend to expand their Airtransport operations to more cities, the first of which will include New York City and Chicago. Though often called "flying cars," however, the Airtransport system isn't really quite like the movie version of personal flight technology. Instead of having cars fly on their own, the Airtransport system uses large drones to
When the US Department of Justice issued an order to Alphabet Inc. to break up, they did not expect what happened next. At a rate that was surprising to nearly everyone, over the course of three months, the corporation rapidly relocated their headquarters to India and heavily cut down operations in the United States. "They were likely planning this move since 2031," explained tech policy expert Bill Gordon. "When the anti-trust sentiment in the US lead to Facebook being broken up, Google knew they were next and acted to prevent it. When they realized they couldn't
AI has a long history with therapy. In fact, one of the early iterations of AI, ELIZA, was designed to simulate a psychotherapist. It was convincing for its time, but we've come a long way since then. So, meet Jan, the newest and hottest AI therapist on the market. "She's incredibly convincing," noted the world-renowned psychotherapist Umbert Henry, who was brought in to judge Jan's abilities. "Not only does she seem remarkably human, but she's also an amazing therapist. She makes you feel incredibly happy, inspired, and motivated, and she adapts to your needs, continuously adapting to new information about
America has lost the second space race. Last Tuesday, over a billion people around the world watched as the Hongxing 6 spacecraft landed on Mars's surface. As astronaut Fong Chongde stepped out onto the red dust of our planetary neighbor, he remarked, "Welcome to the red planet, everyone." This has been a long time coming, however--over the last decade, China poured unprecedented amounts of funding into space travel, and despite the efforts of flagship American institutions like NASA and SpaceX, Americans did not show the same interest in reaching Mars as the Chinese. And now, the red planet is officially
Last Friday, President Park officially signed the "Rapid Competitiveness Act" into law, heavily cutting social security, slashing the corporate tax, and massively deregulating the pharmaceutical, financial, and tech sectors. "We must face the truth," said President Park in his speech last Friday. "The last decade has been a series of embarrassments for the United States. From our massive brain-drain to our slowing economy to our failure to get a man on Mars, our position as a world leader is slipping. In order to catch up, we need to deregulate, we need to revitalize our economy. We need to get
Arun Kumar looks like any other one-year-old, and he behaves like any other one-year-old, too. And yet, his first birthday was the talk of the town in the medical community last Sunday. Arun is, after all, the first human baby to have been grown completely out of the womb from an artificially created zygote, which makes his unremarkable character quite remarkable. He was "born" in 2045 in Google's Indra lab in New Delhi and is officially a citizen of India. He is officially the ward of Alphabet Inc. and is being raised by a small team of developmental psychologists in
The housing market is often called a leading indicator by economists, meaning that its trends tend to predict trends in the more general economy. Indeed, both the Great Recession in 2008 and the Long Recession of 2022 were preceded by a dip in the housing market. If this trend is accurate, we have cause to be concerned. Over the last four years, the damages of the rising sea levels have been manifesting rapidly in coastal states. Last year only, over a hundred houses experienced chronic flooding in Florida, and real estate prices in the state have been in free-fall.
Over the last year, the Federal Reserve has increased its interest rate target gradually from 2.3% to 15%. The stock market has reacted violently to the shift, losing over 500 points during over this year, and the US economy has once again spiraled into a recession. Though the Fed's decisions have been criticized passionately by politicians on both sides, many economists are arguing that this move was necessary to reset the floundering economy. Over the last two years, the United States has seen both unemployment and inflation steadily rise. This phenomenon, known as stagflation, was last seen in the 1970s,
The number of victims claimed by the deadly NETS virus has risen to over thirty million, marking it as the worst epidemic of any disease in recent history, said the World Health Organization on Monday. The NETS virus, which started in India, has ravaged many East and Southeast Asian countries and shows no signs of stopping. Even with treatment, the virus has a 90% mortality rate, and a vaccine seems far off. Due to the remarkably unusual genome of the virus, some are speculating that the virus may be artificial in origin; a prime suspect for many is Google's Indra
The recession of the past few years, commonly dubbed the "Death Recession" due to its coincidence with the deadly NETS epidemic, was a conglomeration of several tragedies in the global economy. First, the United States, the world's largest economy, entered a deep recession after hiking interest rates to stop its stagflation. Simultaneously, the NETS epidemic wiped out nearly a hundred million people before it was contained; India, the new technological center of the world, was especially devastated, especially when it was revealed that it was Google's Indra Lab that had accidentally developed the virus. The fact that the economy seems
March 26, 2060 at 3:32 PM--China's GDP, for a brief six minutes, overtakes the GDP of the USA. And with this, the USA can no longer be said to be the world's uncontested economic leader. Though many economists argue that this was eventually inevitable, some recent short-term factors contributed to this brief upset. One was the fact that China's economy was not as negatively affected by the Death Recession as the USA's, despite the NETS virus having a more serious impact on China's population: China, not having been in the depths of a stagflation fueled recession at the time,